*: merge experimental-feature.md to basic-features.md (#12186)
pingcap/docs: basic-features.md

---
title: TiDB Features
summary: Learn about the feature overview of TiDB.

> aliases: ['/docs/dev/basic-features/','/tidb/dev/experimental-features-4.0/']

Reviewer: please update the aliases for stable.

---
title: TiDB Features
summary: Learn about the feature overview of TiDB.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/basic-features/','/tidb/dev/experimental-features-4.0/']
---

# TiDB Features

This document lists the features supported in each TiDB version.

> **Note:**
>

> > - Y: the feature is in general availability (GA) and can be used in production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Y: the feature is generally available (GA) and can be used in production environments.
```

> - N: the feature is not supported.

> > - Experimental: the feature is not GA yet and you need to be aware of the usage limitations. Experimental features are subject to change or removal without prior notice. The syntax and implementation might change before the general availability. If you find any issue, file a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Experimental: the feature is not GA yet and you need to be aware of the usage limitations. Experimental features are subject to change or removal without prior notice. The syntax and implementation might be modified before the general availability. If you find any issue, file a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues).
```

> > - Experimental: the feature is not GA yet and you need to be aware of the usage limitations. Experimental features are subject to change or removal without prior notice. The syntax and implementation might be modified before the general availability. If you find any issue, file a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Experimental: the feature is not GA yet and you need to be aware of the usage limitations. Experimental features are subject to change or removal without prior notice. The syntax and implementation might be modified before the general availability. If you encounter any problems, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.
```

| ------------------------------------------------------------ | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | ------------ | :----------: | :----------: | :----------: | :----------: | :----------: |
| [Expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) [^2] | Y | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental |
| [Columnar storage (TiFlash)](/tiflash/tiflash-overview.md)   | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y            |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |
| [Use FastScan to accelerate queries in OLAP scenarios](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N |
| [RocksDB engine](/storage-engine/rocksdb-overview.md)        | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y            |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |
| [Titan plugin](/storage-engine/titan-overview.md)            | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y            |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |

> | [Titan Level Merge](/storage-engine/titan-configuration.md#level-merge实验功能)   |  Experimental   |  Experimental   |  Experimental   |  Experimental    |  Experimental    |  Experimental    |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |

Author: ```suggestion
| [Titan Level Merge](/storage-engine/titan-configuration.md#level-merge-experimental)   |  Experimental   |  Experimental   |  Experimental   |  Experimental    |  Experimental    |  Experimental    |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |    Experimental     |
```

| [Table Lock](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-table-lock-new-in-v400) | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental |
| [TiFlash Query Result Materialization](/tiflash/tiflash-results-materialization.md) | Experimental | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N |

## Advanced SQL features

| Advanced SQL features                                    | 6.5 | 6.4 | 6.3 | 6.2 | 6.1 | 6.0 | 5.4          |   5.3    |   5.2    |   5.1    |   5.0   |   4.0    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | ------------ | :----------: | :----------: | :----------: | :----------: | :----------: |
| [Prepared statement cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md)       | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y            |      Y       | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental | Experimental |
| [SQL plan management (SPM)](/sql-plan-management.md)         | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y            |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |      Y       |

> | [Create binding according to historical execution plan](/sql-plan-management.md#create-a-binding-according-to-a-historical-execution-plan) | Experimental | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Create bindings according to historical execution plans](/sql-plan-management.md#create-a-binding-according-to-a-historical-execution-plan) | Experimental | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N |
```
